## Project Overview
Most of us have experienced the struggle of being on a project with incompatible team members. Thus, it goes without saying that your teammates are a key indicator of how well a project will pan out. So, why leave such an important factor up to fate? Well, with the use of my project, you won’t have to! I’ve created a tool that evaluates the candidates for a project, based on their strengths and weaknesses. Let’s talk about how I did it.

## Implementation Details
First, I set up my work environment. I used Google Colaboratory to create a Jupyter Notebook for the project, which provided an interactive environment to both develop and display the functionality of my tool (for free!). To facilitate the application data, I then installed PostgreSQL, a database management system, into my virtual environment. I also imported EvaDB, a useful query engine, into the environment to extend AI capabilities into my database. 

Next, I needed to create the supporting data and structures for the tool. So, I started with creating a basic skills taxonomy, which is a concise list of skills used to describe both candidate capabilities and the project needs. This taxonomy is as follows: organization, leadership, technical fluency, creativity, verbal communication, financial literacy, athleticism, and writing. These skills are ambiguous enough to apply to a wide range of projects, yet specific enough to identify as one’s strengths or weaknesses. Next, I created a dataset of sample candidates that also includes their strengths and weaknesses. Lastly, I created a small dataset of sample projects to test our tool with. I stored each of these datasets as CSV files in the Colab workspace.

Once I had the foundation built, I focused on integrating the OpenAI models into my PostgreSQL database to achieve the primary functionality. Within the Jupyter Notebook, I created a cursor to directly interact with my PostgreSQL database and another one to directly interact with EvaDB. Using these cursors, I was able to create tables to host my projects, candidates, skill taxonomy, strengths, and weaknesses. The PostgreSQL cursor served useful for accessing functions that were not supported by EvaQL. For example, I used it to load the CSV files into my database using PostgreSQL’s copy function and leverage that data to create a view of the strengths and weaknesses of each candidate.

Before evaluating the compatibility of each candidate with the projects, I first used ChatGPT to pick 3 skills from the taxonomy that were most critical to the project. Using the responses as variables in a different ChatGPT prompt, I was able to evaluate each candidate skill set against the required project skills (as told by ChatGPT) to determine how qualified they were for the project. 
